.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2010 G.P. Halkes
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH "dwdiff" "1" "27-07-2010" "Version 1.8.2" "delimited word diff program"
.hw /usr/share/doc/dwdiff-1.8.2 http://os.ghalkes.nl/dwdiff

.SH NAME

\fBdwdiff\fP \- a delimited word diff program
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBdwdiff\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] <\fIOLD FILE\fP> <\fINEW FILE\fP>
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBdwdiff\fP is a front-end for the \fBdiff\fP program that operates at the word
level instead of the line level. It is different from \fBwdiff\fP in that it
allows the user to specify what should be considered whitespace, and in that
it takes an optional list of characters that should be considered delimiters.
Delimiters are single characters that are treated as if they are words, even
when there is no whitespace separating them from preceding words or
delimiters. \fBdwdiff\fP is mostly command-line compatible with \fBwdiff\fP.
Only the \-\-autopager, \-\-terminal and \-\-avoid-wraps options are not
supported.

The default output from \fBdwdiff\fP is the new text, with the deleted and
inserted parts annotated with markers. Command line options are available to
change both what is printed, and the markers.
.SH OPTIONS

\fBdwdiff\fP accepts the following options (Note that all strings will first
be escape expanded. All standard \\-escapes are supported, as well as \\u and
\\U Unicode escapes):
.IP "\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP"
Display a short help message.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Print version and copyright information.
.IP "\fB\-d\fP <\fIdelimiters\fP>, \fB\-\-delimiters\fP=<\fIdelimiters\fP>"
Specify a list of characters to be used as delimiters.
.IP "\fB\-P\fP, \fB\-\-punctuation\fP>"
Use punctuation characters as delimiters. The exact set of punctuation
characters depends on the current locale.
.IP "\fB\-W\fP <\fIwhitespace\fP>, \fB\-\-whitespace\fP=<\fIwhitespace\fP>"
Specify a list of characters to be used as whitespace.
.IP "\fB\-1\fP, \fB\-\-no\-deleted\fP"
Suppress printing of words deleted from the first file.
.IP "\fB\-2\fP, \fB\-\-no\-inserted\fP"
Suppress printing of words inserted in the second file.
.IP "\fB\-3\fP, \fB\-\-no\-common\fP"
Suppress printing of words common to both files.
.IP "\fB\-L\fP[<\fIwidth\fP>], \fB\-\-line-numbers\fP[=<\fIwidth\fP>]"
Show line numbers at the start of each line. The line numbers displayed are
the line number in the old file and the line number in the new file
respectively. The optional <\fIwidth\fP> argument is the minimum number of
positions per line number.
.IP "\fB\-C\fP<\fInum\fP>, \fB\-\-context\fP=<\fInum\fP>"
Show <\fInum\fP> lines of context before and after each changes. A line
with only \-\- is printed between blocks of changes.
.IP "\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-statistics\fP"
Print statistics when done. The numbers printed include the number of words
from in both files, the number of deleted words, the number of
inserted words, and the number of changed words. The number of changed words
is counted as the number of words that are removed from the first file, and
the number of words that replace them from the second file. All of these
numbers are also expressed as a percentage of the total number of words in the
file the words came from.
.IP "\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-ignore\-case\fP"
Ignore differences in case when comparing words. This option is only
available if the diff program that is called provides it.
.IP "\fB\-I\fP, \fB\-\-ignore\-formatting\fP"
Ignore differences in formatting of characters. This option switches to using
the Unicode compatibility decomposition instead of the canonical decomposition.
The compatibility decomposition discards formatting information. For example,
the ligature fi will be decomposed into two separate characters for the
purposes of comparison. However, also super- and subscript will be regarded
equal as well as different rotations of the same character.
.IP "\fB\-D\fP <\fIoption\fP>, \fB\-\-diff\-option\fP=<\fIoption\fP>"
Add an option to the command line of the \fBdiff\fP(1) command. This option
can be used to tell the \fBdiff\fP command that it should change its matching
algorithm. WARNING: make sure that the options passed do not change the output
of the \fBdiff\fP program, or \fBdwdiff\fP will fail. The GNU and most BSD
versions of \fBdiff\fP accept the \-d or \-\-minimal option to make \fBdiff\fP
find a minimal diff at extra cost. See the \fBdiff\fP manual page for more
information.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP[<\fIspec\fP>], \fB\-\-color\fP[=<\fIspec\fP>]"
Color mode. The optional <\fIspec\fP> can be used to customize the colors.
<\fIspec\fP> consists of [<\fIdelete\fP>],[<\fIinsert\fP>]. If either is
omited it will be set to its default color (bright red or bright green
respectively). Both parts of the <\fIspec\fP> consist of
[<\fIforeground\fP>][:<\fIbackground\fP>]. To obtain a list of permissible
color names, use the word ``list'' as <\fIspec\fP>. Alternatively, you can
specify any escape sequence to set attributes as a color by prepending
\fIe:\fP.

The standard markers for the begin and end of deleted and inserted text are
suppressed, but any markers specified on the command line will still be
printed.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-less-mode\fP"
As \-p but also overstrike deleted whitespace.
.IP "\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-printer\fP"
Use overstriking with an underscore and bold text to emphasize changes. This
is implemented by first printing the underscore or a duplicate of the
character to be printed, followed by a backspace, followed by the character.
On regular terminals you won't see any effect. The \fBless\fP(1) command will
however show underlined and bold text.

The standard markers for the begin and end of deleted and inserted text are
suppressed, but any markers specified on the command line will still be
printed.
.IP "\fB\-m\fP<\fInum\fP>, \fB\-\-match\-context\fP=<\fInum\fP>"
Use <\fInum\fP> words of context before and after words for matching. Words in
the old text will then only match words in the new text if words surrounding
them are also equal. This improves the output for dwdiff for large changes with
frequently occuring words. However, using context requires more disk space and
more processing time. The default value is 1. Set this option to 0 to revert to
the pre 1.5 behavior.
.IP "\fB\-\-aggregate\-changes\fP"
Allow multiple close changes to be treated as one change, if context words are
used (see \fB\-\-match\-context\fP). This option reduces the processing time
as the changes reported by the \fBdiff\fP program are not post-processed to
give more precise results.
.IP "\fB\-S\fP[<\fImarker\fP>], \fB\-\-paragraph\-separator\fP[=<\fImarker\fP>]"
Show insertion or deletion of blocks of lines with only whitespace characters.
A special marker is inserted into the output to indicate these blocks. The
default marker is <\-\->.
.IP "\fB\-\-wdiff\-output"
Create \fBwdiff\fP compatible output. The \fBdwdiff\fP program uses a different
output algorithm, which provides a more intuitive output.
.IP "\fB\-w <\fIstring\fP>, \fB\-\-start\-delete\fP=<\fIstring\fP>"
Specify a string to mark begin of deleted text.
.IP "\fB\-x <\fIstring\fP>, \fB\-\-stop\-delete\fP=<\fIstring\fP>"
Specify a string to mark end of deleted text.
.IP "\fB\-y <\fIstring\fP>, \fB\-\-start\-insert\fP=<\fIstring\fP>"
Specify a string to mark begin of inserted text.
.IP "\fB\-z <\fIstring\fP>, \fB\-\-stop\-insert\fP=<\fIstring\fP>"
Specify a string to mark end of inserted text.
.IP "\fB\-R, \-\-repeat\-markers\fP"
Repeat the begin and end markers at the start and end of line if a change
crosses a newline.
.PP
A single dash (\-) as a file can be used to denote standard input. Only one
file can be read from standard input. To stop \fBdwdiff\fP from interpreting
file names that start with a dash as options, one can specify a double dash
(\-\-) after which \fBdwdiff\fP will interpret any following arguments as files
to read.
.SH BUGS

If you think you have found a bug, please check that you are using the latest
version of \fBdwdiff\fP [http://os.ghalkes.nl/dwdiff]. When reporting bugs,
please include a minimal example that demonstrates the problem.
.SH AUTHOR

G.P. Halkes <dwdiff@ghalkes.nl>
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2006-2010 G.P. Halkes
.br
dwdiff is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
.br
For more details on the license, see the file COPYING in the documentation
directory. On Un*x systems this is usually /usr/share/doc/dwdiff-1.8.2.
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBdwfilter\fP(1), \fBwdiff\fP(1), \fBdiff\fP(1)
