.\" Copyright (C) 2010 G.P. Halkes
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH "dwfilter" "1" "27-07-2010" "Version 1.8.2" "reformat text for processing"
.hw /usr/share/doc/dwdiff-1.8.2 http://os.ghalkes.nl/dwdiff

.SH NAME

\fBdwfilter\fP \- reformat text with dwdiff for further processing
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBdwfilter\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] <\fIOLD FILE\fP> <\fINEW FILE\fP> <\fIPOST PROCESSOR\fP> [\fIPOST PROCESSOR OPTIONS\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBdwfilter\fP reformats the text in the old file according to the contents of
the new file (or vice versa) and subsequently passes the reformated old file
and the new file through a secondary filter. It's main use is to allow visual
diff programs such as \fBmeld\fP and \fBkdiff3\fP to be used, eventhough a text
file has been reformated after editing. A further use is to allow the creation
of small patches even when the new text has been reformated. \fBdwfilter\fP
uses \fBdwdiff\fP for reformatting.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\fB\-r\fP, \fB\-\-reverse\fP"
Reformat the new file based on the contents of the old file instead of the
default where the old file is reformated based on the contents of the new file.
.PP
\fBdwfilter\fP accepts the following \fBdwdiff\fP options:

.PP
\fB\-d\fP <\fIdelimiters\fP>, \fB\-\-delimiters\fP=<\fIdelimiters\fP>
.br
\fB\-P\fP, \fB\-\-punctuation\fP>
.br
\fB\-W\fP <\fIwhitespace\fP>, \fB\-\-whitespace\fP=<\fIwhitespace\fP>
.br
\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-ignore\-case\fP
.br
\fB\-I\fP, \fB\-\-ignore\-formatting\fP
.br
\fB-D\fP <\fIoption\fP>, \fB\-\-diff\-option\fP=<\fIoption\fP>
.br
\fB-C\fP<\fInum\fP>, \fB\-\-context\fP=<\fInum\fP>
.br
\fB\-m\fP<\fInum\fP>, \fB\-\-match\-context\fP=<\fInum\fP>
.br
\fB\-\-aggregate\-changes\fP
.br
\fB\-\-wdiff\-output
.PP
See the \fBdwdiff\fP manual page for the meaning.

A single dash (\-) as a file can be used to denote standard input. Only one
file can be read from standard input. To stop \fBdwfilter\fP from interpreting
file names that start with a dash as options, one can specify a double dash
(\-\-) after which \fBdwfilter\fP will interpret any following arguments as files
to read.
.SH BUGS

If you think you have found a bug, please check that you are using the latest
version of \fBdwdiff\fP [http://os.ghalkes.nl/dwdiff]. When reporting bugs,
please include a minimal example that demonstrates the problem.
.SH AUTHOR

G.P. Halkes <dwdiff@ghalkes.nl>
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2006-2010 G.P. Halkes
.br
dwdiff is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
.br
For more details on the license, see the file COPYING in the documentation
directory. On Un*x systems this is usually /usr/share/doc/dwdiff-1.8.2.
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBdwdiff\fP(1), \fBdiff\fP(1), \fBmeld\fP(1), \fBkdiff3\fP(1)
